website/docs/commands/repl.md, before:

---
title: REPL
sidebar_position: 9
---

The `repl` command starts a Scala REPL, that allows you to interactively
run your code and inspect its results.

```bash ignore
scala-cli repl
# scala> println("Hello Scala")
# Hello Scala
#
# scala> :exit
```

Scala CLI by default uses the normal Scala REPL.

Pass `--amm` to launch an [Ammonite REPL](https://ammonite.io/#Ammonite-REPL), rather than the default Scala REPL:

```bash ignore
scala-cli repl --amm
# Loading...
# Welcome to the Ammonite Repl 2.4.0-23-76673f7f (Scala 3.0.2 Java 11.0.11)
# @ println("Hello ammonite")
# Hello ammonite
# @ exit
# Bye!
```

`repl` commands accepts the same arguments as [compile](./compile.md). It first compiles provided sources, then exposes results as well as provided dependencies to the REPL session:

```scala title=mylibrary/Messages.scala
package mylibrary

object Messages {
  def message = "Hello"
  def print(): Unit = println(message)
}
```
```bash
scala-cli repl mylibrary/Messages.scala
# Compiling project (Scala 3.0.2, JVM)
# Compiled project (Scala 3.0.2, JVM)
# scala> import mylibrary._
#
# scala> Messages.print()
# Hello
#
# scala> :quit
```

Commit message:

Initial edits to Overview and Commands

website/docs/commands/repl.md, after:

---
title: REPL
sidebar_position: 9
---

The `repl` command starts a Scala REPL, which lets you interactively run your code and inspect its results:

```bash ignore
scala-cli repl
# scala> println("Hello Scala")
# Hello Scala
#
# scala> :exit
```

Scala CLI by default uses the normal Scala REPL.

If you prefer to use the [Ammonite REPL](https://ammonite.io/#Ammonite-REPL), specify `--amm` to launch it rather than the default REPL:

```bash ignore
scala-cli repl --amm
# Loading...
# Welcome to the Ammonite Repl 2.4.0-23-76673f7f (Scala 3.0.2 Java 11.0.11)
# @ println("Hello ammonite")
# Hello ammonite
# @ exit
# Bye!
```

The `repl` command accepts the same arguments as the [compile](./compile.md) command. It first compiles any provided sources, and then exposes those results and any provided dependencies to the REPL session:

```scala title=mylibrary/Messages.scala
package mylibrary

object Messages {
  def message = "Hello"
  def print(): Unit = println(message)
}
```
```bash
scala-cli repl mylibrary/Messages.scala
# Compiling project (Scala 3.0.2, JVM)
# Compiled project (Scala 3.0.2, JVM)
# scala> import mylibrary._
#
# scala> Messages.print()
# Hello
#
# scala> :quit
```
