website/docs/commands/run.md, before:

---
title: Run
sidebar_position: 6
---

import {ChainedSnippets} from "../../src/components/MarkdownComponents.js";

The `run` command runs your Scala code:

```scala title=Hello.scala
object Hello {
  def main(args: Array[String]): Unit =
    println("Hello")
}
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli run Hello.scala
```

```text
Hello
```

</ChainedSnippets>

This is the default command, so you don’t have to specify it explicitly:

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala
```

```text
Hello
```

</ChainedSnippets>

## Passing arguments

You can pass arguments to the application or script you're launching after `--`:

```scala title=app.sc
println(args.mkString("App called with arguments: ", ", ", ""))
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli app.sc -- first-arg second-arg
```

```text
App called with arguments: first-arg, second-arg
```

</ChainedSnippets>

<!-- Expected:
App called with arguments: first-arg, second-arg
-->

## Main class

If your application has multiple main classes, the `--main-class` option lets you explicitly specify the main class you want to run:

```scala title=hi.sc
println("Hi")
```

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala hi.sc --main-class hi_sc
```

## Custom JVM

`--jvm` lets you run your application with a custom JVM:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --jvm adopt:14
```

You can also specify custom JVM with the using directive `//> using jvm`:
```scala compile
//> using jvm "adopt:14"
```

JVMs are [managed by coursier](https://get-coursier.io/docs/cli-java#managed-jvms), and are read from the [coursier JVM index](https://github.com/coursier/jvm-index).
(New JVM versions are automatically checked daily, and updates for those are - manually - merged
swiftly.)

### JVM options

`--java-opt` lets you add `java` options which will be passed when running an application:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --java-opt -Xmx1g --java-opt -Dfoo=bar
```

You can also add java options with the using directive `//> using javaOpt`:
```scala compile
//> using javaOpt "-Xmx1g", "-Dfoo=bar"
```

### JAR

`scala-cli` lets you run JAR files just like any other input.

```bash ignore
scala-cli Hello.jar
```

```text
Hello World
```

When you provide a JAR file as input to `scala-cli`, it will be added to the `classPath`.

## Define source files in using directives

You can also add source files with the using directive `//> using file`:

```scala title=Main.scala
//> using file "Utils.scala" 

object Main extends App {
   println(Utils.message)
}
```
```scala title=Utils.scala
object Utils {
  val message = "Hello World"
}
```

`scala-cli` takes it into account and compiles `Utils.scala`.

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli Main.scala
```

```text
Hello World
```

</ChainedSnippets>

<!-- Expected:
Hello World
-->

It is also possible to pass multiple paths to source files in a single using directive:
```scala title=Multiple.scala
//> using files "Utils.scala", "Main.scala"
```

```bash
scala-cli run Multiple.scala
```

 Note that the `//> using file` using directive only supports `.java`, `.scala`, `.sc` files or a directory. 

## Watch mode

`--watch` makes `scala-cli` watch your code for changes, and re-runs it upon any change:

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash ignore
scala-cli run Hello.scala  --watch
```

```text
Hello
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
Compiling project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Compiled project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Hello World
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
```

</ChainedSnippets>

### Watch mode - restart

`--restart` mode runs your application in the background and automatically restarts it upon any change:

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash ignore
scala-cli run Hello.scala --restart
```

```text
Hello
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
Compiling project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Compiled project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Hello World
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
```

</ChainedSnippets>

## Scala.js

Scala.js applications can also be compiled and run with the `--js` option.
Note that this requires `node` to be [installed](/install#scala-js) on your system:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --js
```

It is also possible to achieve it using `--platform` option:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --platform js
```

See our dedicated [Scala.js guide](../guides/scala-js.md) for more information.

## Scala Native

Scala Native applications can be compiled and run with the `--native` option.
Note that the [Scala Native requirements](https://scala-native.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/setup.html#installing-clang-and-runtime-dependencies) need to be [installed](/install#scala-native) for this to work:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --native -S 2.13.6
```

It is also possible to achieve it using `--platform` option:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --platform native
```

We have a dedicated [Scala Native guide](../guides/scala-native.md) as well.

## Platform

The `--platform` option can be used to choose the platform, which should be used to compile and run application. Available platforms are:
* JVM (`jvm`)
* Scala.js (`scala.js` | `scala-js` | `scalajs` | `js`)
* Scala Native (`scala-native` | `scalanative` | `native`)

Passing the `--platform` along with `--js` or `--native` is not recommended. If two different types of platform are passed, Scala CLI throws an error.

## Scala Scripts

Scala CLI can also compile and run Scala scripts:

```scala title=HelloScript.sc
#!/usr/bin/env -S scala-cli shebang

println("Hello world from scala script")
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli run HelloScript.sc
```

```text
Hello world from scala script
```

</ChainedSnippets>

Our [scripts guide](../guides/scripts.md) provides many more details.

## Scala CLI from docker

Scala applications can also be compiled and run using a [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) image with `scala-cli`, without needing to install Scala CLI manually:

```bash
docker run virtuslab/scala-cli:latest about
```

```scala title=HelloWorld.scala
object HelloWorld extends App {
  println("Hello world")
}
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash ignore
docker run  -v $(pwd)/HelloWorld.scala:/HelloWorld.scala virtuslab/scala-cli /HelloWorld.scala
```

```text
Hello world
```

</ChainedSnippets>

## Debugging

It is possible to debug code by passing `--debug` flag.

Additional debug options:
* `--debug-mode` (attach by default)
* `--debug-port` (5005 by default)

Available debug modes:
* Attach (`attach` | `att` | `a`)
* Listen (`listen` | `lis` | `l`)

Example debugging with scala-cli:

```bash ignore
scala-cli Foo.scala --debug --debug-mode l --debug-port 5006
```

Commit message:

Add support for passing java properties without --java-prop

website/docs/commands/run.md, after:

---
title: Run
sidebar_position: 6
---

import {ChainedSnippets} from "../../src/components/MarkdownComponents.js";

The `run` command runs your Scala code:

```scala title=Hello.scala
object Hello {
  def main(args: Array[String]): Unit =
    println("Hello")
}
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli run Hello.scala
```

```text
Hello
```

</ChainedSnippets>

This is the default command, so you don’t have to specify it explicitly:

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala
```

```text
Hello
```

</ChainedSnippets>

## Passing arguments

You can pass arguments to the application or script you're launching after `--`:

```scala title=app.sc
println(args.mkString("App called with arguments: ", ", ", ""))
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli app.sc -- first-arg second-arg
```

```text
App called with arguments: first-arg, second-arg
```

</ChainedSnippets>

<!-- Expected:
App called with arguments: first-arg, second-arg
-->

## Main class

If your application has multiple main classes, the `--main-class` option lets you explicitly specify the main class you want to run:

```scala title=hi.sc
println("Hi")
```

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala hi.sc --main-class hi_sc
```

## Custom JVM

`--jvm` lets you run your application with a custom JVM:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --jvm adopt:14
```

You can also specify custom JVM with the using directive `//> using jvm`:
```scala compile
//> using jvm "adopt:14"
```

JVMs are [managed by coursier](https://get-coursier.io/docs/cli-java#managed-jvms), and are read from the [coursier JVM index](https://github.com/coursier/jvm-index).
(New JVM versions are automatically checked daily, and updates for those are - manually - merged
swiftly.)

### JVM options

`--java-opt` lets you add `java` options which will be passed when running an application:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --java-opt -Xmx1g --java-opt -Dfoo=bar
```

You can also add java options with the using directive `//> using javaOpt`:
```scala compile
//> using javaOpt "-Xmx1g", "-Dfoo=bar"
```

Additionally, java properties can be passed to `scala-cli` without `--java-prop`:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala -Dfoo=bar
```

### JAR

`scala-cli` lets you run JAR files just like any other input.

```bash ignore
scala-cli Hello.jar
```

```text
Hello World
```

When you provide a JAR file as input to `scala-cli`, it will be added to the `classPath`.

## Define source files in using directives

You can also add source files with the using directive `//> using file`:

```scala title=Main.scala
//> using file "Utils.scala" 

object Main extends App {
   println(Utils.message)
}
```
```scala title=Utils.scala
object Utils {
  val message = "Hello World"
}
```

`scala-cli` takes it into account and compiles `Utils.scala`.

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli Main.scala
```

```text
Hello World
```

</ChainedSnippets>

<!-- Expected:
Hello World
-->

It is also possible to pass multiple paths to source files in a single using directive:
```scala title=Multiple.scala
//> using files "Utils.scala", "Main.scala"
```

```bash
scala-cli run Multiple.scala
```

 Note that the `//> using file` using directive only supports `.java`, `.scala`, `.sc` files or a directory. 

## Watch mode

`--watch` makes `scala-cli` watch your code for changes, and re-runs it upon any change:

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash ignore
scala-cli run Hello.scala  --watch
```

```text
Hello
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
Compiling project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Compiled project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Hello World
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
```

</ChainedSnippets>

### Watch mode - restart

`--restart` mode runs your application in the background and automatically restarts it upon any change:

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash ignore
scala-cli run Hello.scala --restart
```

```text
Hello
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
Compiling project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Compiled project (Scala 3.1.1, JVM)
Hello World
Watching sources, press Ctrl+C to exit.
```

</ChainedSnippets>

## Scala.js

Scala.js applications can also be compiled and run with the `--js` option.
Note that this requires `node` to be [installed](/install#scala-js) on your system:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --js
```

It is also possible to achieve it using `--platform` option:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --platform js
```

See our dedicated [Scala.js guide](../guides/scala-js.md) for more information.

## Scala Native

Scala Native applications can be compiled and run with the `--native` option.
Note that the [Scala Native requirements](https://scala-native.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user/setup.html#installing-clang-and-runtime-dependencies) need to be [installed](/install#scala-native) for this to work:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --native -S 2.13.6
```

It is also possible to achieve it using `--platform` option:

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --platform native
```

We have a dedicated [Scala Native guide](../guides/scala-native.md) as well.

## Platform

The `--platform` option can be used to choose the platform, which should be used to compile and run application. Available platforms are:
* JVM (`jvm`)
* Scala.js (`scala.js` | `scala-js` | `scalajs` | `js`)
* Scala Native (`scala-native` | `scalanative` | `native`)

Passing the `--platform` along with `--js` or `--native` is not recommended. If two different types of platform are passed, Scala CLI throws an error.

## Scala Scripts

Scala CLI can also compile and run Scala scripts:

```scala title=HelloScript.sc
#!/usr/bin/env -S scala-cli shebang

println("Hello world from scala script")
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash
scala-cli run HelloScript.sc
```

```text
Hello world from scala script
```

</ChainedSnippets>

Our [scripts guide](../guides/scripts.md) provides many more details.

## Scala CLI from docker

Scala applications can also be compiled and run using a [docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/) image with `scala-cli`, without needing to install Scala CLI manually:

```bash
docker run virtuslab/scala-cli:latest about
```

```scala title=HelloWorld.scala
object HelloWorld extends App {
  println("Hello world")
}
```

<ChainedSnippets>

```bash ignore
docker run  -v $(pwd)/HelloWorld.scala:/HelloWorld.scala virtuslab/scala-cli /HelloWorld.scala
```

```text
Hello world
```

</ChainedSnippets>

## Debugging

It is possible to debug code by passing `--debug` flag.

Additional debug options:
* `--debug-mode` (attach by default)
* `--debug-port` (5005 by default)

Available debug modes:
* Attach (`attach` | `att` | `a`)
* Listen (`listen` | `lis` | `l`)

Example debugging with scala-cli:

```bash ignore
scala-cli Foo.scala --debug --debug-mode l --debug-port 5006
```
