website/docs/configuration.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
sidebar_position: 4
---

`scala-cli` can be configured in several ways:
- on the command-line
- in a configuration file
- some options can also be specified directly in `.scala` and `.sc` files

Parameters on the command-line take precedence over parameters in configuration files or sources.
That way, you can quickly override parameters from the command-line.

Note that the configuration format and options in `.scala` files are likely
to evolve and be unified in the near future.

## Command-line

Pass `--help` to any sub-command of `scala-cli` to list its options:
```text
scala-cli --help
scala-cli package --help
```

For example, you can specify the Scala version, or add dependencies, on the command-line:
```text
scala-cli --scala 3.0.0 Test.scala
scala-cli --dependency org.typelevel::cats-core:2.3.0 Test.scala
```

The reference documentation lists [all available options](reference/cli-options.md).

## In `.scala` files

Dependencies can be added right from `.scala` and `.sc` files, using the same
syntax as Ammonite and Metals worksheets:

```scala
import $dep.`com.lihaoyi::upickle:1.4.0`
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::pprint:0.6.6`
import ujson._
```

Both `import $ivy` and `import $dep` are accepted, and are equivalent.

## Configuration files

Pass a file named `scala.conf`, or ending in `.scala.conf`, to specify options
via a [HOCON](https://github.com/lightbend/config) configuration file:
```hocon
scala {
  version = "2.13"
  options = [
    "-Xlint:infer-any"
  ]
}
jvm = "14"
repositories = [
  "https://s01.oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots"
]
dependencies = [
  "ai.kien::python-native-libs:0.0.0+13-f5d7089a-SNAPSHOT"
]
```

The reference documentation lists [all available options](reference/configuration-file.md).

Commit message:

Add using directives to reference doc

website/docs/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
sidebar_position: 4
---

`scala-cli` can be configured in several ways:
- on the command-line
- in a configuration file
- some options can also be specified directly in `.scala` and `.sc` files

Parameters on the command-line take precedence over parameters in configuration files or sources.
That way, you can quickly override parameters from the command-line.

Note that the configuration format and options in `.scala` files are likely
to evolve and be unified in the near future.

## Command-line

Pass `--help` to any sub-command of `scala-cli` to list its options:
```text
scala-cli --help
scala-cli package --help
```

For example, you can specify the Scala version, or add dependencies, on the command-line:
```text
scala-cli --scala 3.0.0 Test.scala
scala-cli --dependency org.typelevel::cats-core:2.3.0 Test.scala
```

The reference documentation lists [all available options](reference/cli-options.md).

## Special imports

Dependencies can be added right from `.scala` and `.sc` files, using the same
syntax as Ammonite and Metals worksheets:

```scala
import $dep.`com.lihaoyi::upickle:1.4.0`
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::pprint:0.6.6`
import ujson._
```

Both `import $ivy` and `import $dep` are accepted, and are equivalent.

## Configuration files

Pass a file named `scala.conf`, or ending in `.scala.conf`, to specify options
via a [HOCON](https://github.com/lightbend/config) configuration file:
```hocon
scala {
  version = "2.13"
  options = [
    "-Xlint:infer-any"
  ]
}
jvm = "14"
repositories = [
  "https://s01.oss.sonatype.org/content/repositories/snapshots"
]
dependencies = [
  "ai.kien::python-native-libs:0.0.0+13-f5d7089a-SNAPSHOT"
]
```

The reference documentation lists [all available options](reference/configuration-file.md).

## Using directives

Scala CLI can be configured from `.scala` files. You can specify `using` directives at the
top of a `.scala` file, before any `package` or `import` statement.

```scala
using scala 2.13
using scala-js
using options -Xasync
```

The reference documentation lists [all available using directives](reference/using-directives.md).
