website/docs/reference/scala-command/commands.md, before:

---
title: Commands
sidebar_position: 3
---

**This document describes as scala-cli behaves if run as `scala` command. See more information in [SIP-46](https://github.com/scala/improvement-proposals/pull/46)**


# `scala` commands

This document is a specification of the `scala` runner.
For now it uses documentation specific to Scala CLI but at some point it may be refactored to provide more abstract documentation.
Documentation is split into sections in the spirit of RFC keywords (`MUST`, `SHOULD`, `NICE TO HAVE`) including the `IMPLEMENTATION` category,
that is reserved for commands that need to be present for Scala CLI to work properly but should not be a part of the official API.

## MUST have commands:

### compile

Compile Scala code

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [compile](./cli-options.md#compile-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### config

Accepts option groups: [config](./cli-options.md#config-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [pgp scala signing](./cli-options.md#pgp-scala-signing-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### doc

Generate Scaladoc documentation

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [doc](./cli-options.md#doc-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### repl

Aliases: `console`

Fire-up a Scala REPL

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [repl](./cli-options.md#repl-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### run

Compile and run Scala code.

Specific run configurations can be specified with both command line options and using directives defined in sources.
Command line options always take priority over using directives when a clash occurs, allowing to override configurations defined in sources.
Using directives can be defined in all supported input source file types.

For a run to be successful, a main method must be present on the classpath.
.sc scripts are an exception, as a main class is provided in their wrapper.

Multiple inputs can be passed at once.
Paths to directories, URLs and supported file types are accepted as inputs.
Accepted file extensions: .scala, .sc, .java, .jar, .md, .jar, .c, .h, .zip
For piped inputs use the corresponding alias: _.scala, _.java, _.sc, _.md
All supported types of inputs can be mixed with each other.

To pass arguments to the actual application, just add them after `--`, like:

```sh
scala-cli run Main.scala AnotherSource.scala -- first-arg second-arg
```

Detailed documentation can be found on our website: https://scala-cli.virtuslab.org

Accepts option groups: [benchmarking](./cli-options.md#benchmarking-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [main class](./cli-options.md#main-class-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [run](./cli-options.md#run-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### shebang

Like `run`, but more handy from shebang scripts

This command is equivalent to `run`, but it changes the way
Scala CLI parses its command-line arguments in order to be compatible
with shebang scripts.

Normally, inputs and scala-cli options can be mixed. And program arguments have to be
specified after `--`.

```sh
scala-cli [command] [scala_cli_options | input]... -- [program_arguments]...
```

Contrary, for shebang command, only a single input file can be set, all scala-cli options
have to be set before the input file, and program arguments after the input file
```sh
scala-cli shebang [scala_cli_options]... input [program_arguments]...
```

Using this, it is possible to conveniently set up Unix shebang scripts. For example:
```sh
#!/usr/bin/env -S scala-cli shebang --scala-version 2.13
println("Hello, world)
```



Accepts option groups: [benchmarking](./cli-options.md#benchmarking-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [main class](./cli-options.md#main-class-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [run](./cli-options.md#run-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

## SHOULD have commands:

### fmt

Aliases: `format`, `scalafmt`

Format Scala code

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [fmt](./cli-options.md#fmt-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### test

Compile and test Scala code

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [test](./cli-options.md#test-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### version

Prints the version of the Scala CLI and the default version of Scala (which can be overridden in the project).
If network connection is available, this sub-command also checks if the installed Scala CLI is up-to-date.

The version of the Scala CLI is the version of the command-line tool that runs Scala programs, which
is distinct from the Scala version of the compiler. We recommend to specify the version of the Scala compiler
for a project in its sources (via a using directive). Otherwise, Scala CLI falls back to the default
Scala version defined by the runner.


Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [version](./cli-options.md#version-options)

## Implementation-specific commands

Commands which are used within Scala CLI and should be a part of the `scala` command but aren't a part of the specification.

### bsp

Start BSP server

Accepts option groups: [bsp](./cli-options.md#bsp-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### clean

Clean the workspace

Accepts option groups: [bsp file](./cli-options.md#bsp-file-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### help

Print help message

Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### install completions

Aliases: `install-completions`

Installs completions into your shell

Accepts option groups: [install completions](./cli-options.md#install-completions-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### install-home

Install Scala CLI in a sub-directory of the home directory

Accepts option groups: [install home](./cli-options.md#install-home-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### setup-ide

Generate a BSP file that you can import into your IDE

Accepts option groups: [bsp file](./cli-options.md#bsp-file-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [setup IDE](./cli-options.md#setup-ide-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### uninstall

Uninstall scala-cli - only works when installed by the installation script

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [uninstall](./cli-options.md#uninstall-options), [uninstall completions](./cli-options.md#uninstall-completions-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### uninstall completions

Aliases: `uninstall-completions`

Uninstalls completions from your shell

Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [uninstall completions](./cli-options.md#uninstall-completions-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### update

Updates Scala CLI.
Works only when installed with the installation script.
If Scala CLI was installed with an external tool, refer to its update methods.
For detailed installation instructions refer to our website: https://scala-cli.virtuslab.org/install

Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [update](./cli-options.md#update-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

Commit message:

Tweak the help message for the `uninstall` sub-command

website/docs/reference/scala-command/commands.md, after:

---
title: Commands
sidebar_position: 3
---

**This document describes as scala-cli behaves if run as `scala` command. See more information in [SIP-46](https://github.com/scala/improvement-proposals/pull/46)**


# `scala` commands

This document is a specification of the `scala` runner.
For now it uses documentation specific to Scala CLI but at some point it may be refactored to provide more abstract documentation.
Documentation is split into sections in the spirit of RFC keywords (`MUST`, `SHOULD`, `NICE TO HAVE`) including the `IMPLEMENTATION` category,
that is reserved for commands that need to be present for Scala CLI to work properly but should not be a part of the official API.

## MUST have commands:

### compile

Compile Scala code

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [compile](./cli-options.md#compile-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### config

Accepts option groups: [config](./cli-options.md#config-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [pgp scala signing](./cli-options.md#pgp-scala-signing-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### doc

Generate Scaladoc documentation

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [doc](./cli-options.md#doc-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### repl

Aliases: `console`

Fire-up a Scala REPL

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [repl](./cli-options.md#repl-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### run

Compile and run Scala code.

Specific run configurations can be specified with both command line options and using directives defined in sources.
Command line options always take priority over using directives when a clash occurs, allowing to override configurations defined in sources.
Using directives can be defined in all supported input source file types.

For a run to be successful, a main method must be present on the classpath.
.sc scripts are an exception, as a main class is provided in their wrapper.

Multiple inputs can be passed at once.
Paths to directories, URLs and supported file types are accepted as inputs.
Accepted file extensions: .scala, .sc, .java, .jar, .md, .jar, .c, .h, .zip
For piped inputs use the corresponding alias: _.scala, _.java, _.sc, _.md
All supported types of inputs can be mixed with each other.

To pass arguments to the actual application, just add them after `--`, like:

```sh
scala-cli run Main.scala AnotherSource.scala -- first-arg second-arg
```

Detailed documentation can be found on our website: https://scala-cli.virtuslab.org

Accepts option groups: [benchmarking](./cli-options.md#benchmarking-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [main class](./cli-options.md#main-class-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [run](./cli-options.md#run-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### shebang

Like `run`, but more handy from shebang scripts

This command is equivalent to `run`, but it changes the way
Scala CLI parses its command-line arguments in order to be compatible
with shebang scripts.

Normally, inputs and scala-cli options can be mixed. And program arguments have to be
specified after `--`.

```sh
scala-cli [command] [scala_cli_options | input]... -- [program_arguments]...
```

Contrary, for shebang command, only a single input file can be set, all scala-cli options
have to be set before the input file, and program arguments after the input file
```sh
scala-cli shebang [scala_cli_options]... input [program_arguments]...
```

Using this, it is possible to conveniently set up Unix shebang scripts. For example:
```sh
#!/usr/bin/env -S scala-cli shebang --scala-version 2.13
println("Hello, world)
```



Accepts option groups: [benchmarking](./cli-options.md#benchmarking-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [main class](./cli-options.md#main-class-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [run](./cli-options.md#run-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

## SHOULD have commands:

### fmt

Aliases: `format`, `scalafmt`

Format Scala code

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [fmt](./cli-options.md#fmt-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### test

Compile and test Scala code

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [cross](./cli-options.md#cross-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [java](./cli-options.md#java-options), [java prop](./cli-options.md#java-prop-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [test](./cli-options.md#test-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [watch](./cli-options.md#watch-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### version

Prints the version of the Scala CLI and the default version of Scala (which can be overridden in the project).
If network connection is available, this sub-command also checks if the installed Scala CLI is up-to-date.

The version of the Scala CLI is the version of the command-line tool that runs Scala programs, which
is distinct from the Scala version of the compiler. We recommend to specify the version of the Scala compiler
for a project in its sources (via a using directive). Otherwise, Scala CLI falls back to the default
Scala version defined by the runner.


Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [version](./cli-options.md#version-options)

## Implementation-specific commands

Commands which are used within Scala CLI and should be a part of the `scala` command but aren't a part of the specification.

### bsp

Start BSP server

Accepts option groups: [bsp](./cli-options.md#bsp-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### clean

Clean the workspace

Accepts option groups: [bsp file](./cli-options.md#bsp-file-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### help

Print help message

Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### install completions

Aliases: `install-completions`

Installs completions into your shell

Accepts option groups: [install completions](./cli-options.md#install-completions-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### install-home

Install Scala CLI in a sub-directory of the home directory

Accepts option groups: [install home](./cli-options.md#install-home-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### setup-ide

Generate a BSP file that you can import into your IDE

Accepts option groups: [bsp file](./cli-options.md#bsp-file-options), [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [debug](./cli-options.md#debug-options), [dependency](./cli-options.md#dependency-options), [help group](./cli-options.md#help-group-options), [input](./cli-options.md#input-options), [jvm](./cli-options.md#jvm-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [markdown](./cli-options.md#markdown-options), [python](./cli-options.md#python-options), [Scala.js](./cli-options.md#scalajs-options), [Scala Native](./cli-options.md#scala-native-options), [scalac](./cli-options.md#scalac-options), [scalac extra](./cli-options.md#scalac-extra-options), [setup IDE](./cli-options.md#setup-ide-options), [shared](./cli-options.md#shared-options), [snippet](./cli-options.md#snippet-options), [suppress warning](./cli-options.md#suppress-warning-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options), [workspace](./cli-options.md#workspace-options)

### uninstall

Uninstalls Scala CLI.
Works only when installed with the installation script.
For detailed installation instructions refer to our website: https://scala-cli.virtuslab.org/install

Accepts option groups: [compilation server](./cli-options.md#compilation-server-options), [coursier](./cli-options.md#coursier-options), [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [uninstall](./cli-options.md#uninstall-options), [uninstall completions](./cli-options.md#uninstall-completions-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### uninstall completions

Aliases: `uninstall-completions`

Uninstalls completions from your shell

Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [uninstall completions](./cli-options.md#uninstall-completions-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)

### update

Updates Scala CLI.
Works only when installed with the installation script.
If Scala CLI was installed with an external tool, refer to its update methods.
For detailed installation instructions refer to our website: https://scala-cli.virtuslab.org/install

Accepts option groups: [logging](./cli-options.md#logging-options), [update](./cli-options.md#update-options), [verbosity](./cli-options.md#verbosity-options)
