website/docs/guides/configuration.md, before:

---
title: Configuration
sidebar_position: 9
---

`scala-cli` can be configured in two ways:
- on the command-line
- directly in `.scala` and `.sc` files

Parameters on the command line take precedence over parameters in sources.
That way, you can quickly override parameters from the command line.

:::warning
The configuration options and syntax in `.scala` (and `.sc`) files is likely to evolve in the future.
:::

## Command-line

Pass `--help` to any sub-command of `scala-cli` to list its options:
```bash
scala-cli --help
scala-cli package --help
```

As an example of command line configuration, one thing you can do with `scala-cli` command line options is to specify the Scala version:
```bash
scala-cli --scala 3.0.0 Test.scala
```

Another thing you can do is to specify dependencies:
```bash
scala-cli --dependency org.typelevel::cats-core:2.3.0 Test.scala
```

The reference documentation lists [all of the available options](../reference/cli-options.md).


## In .scala and .sc files

Configuration information can also be put in `.scala` and `.sc` files using special imports, and the `using` directive.

### Special imports

Dependencies can be added right from `.scala` and `.sc` files, using the same
syntax as Ammonite and Metals worksheets:

```scala
import $dep.`com.lihaoyi::upickle:1.4.0`
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::pprint:0.6.6`
import ujson._
```

Both `import $ivy` and `import $dep` are accepted, and are equivalent.

### Using directives

Scala CLI can be configured inside `.scala` files.
This is achieved by specifying `using` directives inside comments at the top of a `.scala` file, before any `package` or `import` statement:

```scala
//> using scala "2.13"
//> using scala-js
//> using options -Xasync

// package and import statements follow here ...
```

The reference documentation lists [all available using directives](../reference/directives.md#using-directives).

Commit message:

Move special imports down in configuration page
As these are somewhat less important (and may possibly be removed at
some point), better put them more down in this page

website/docs/guides/configuration.md, after:

---
title: Configuration
sidebar_position: 9
---

`scala-cli` can be configured in two ways:
- on the command-line
- directly in `.scala` and `.sc` files

Parameters on the command line take precedence over parameters in sources.
That way, you can quickly override parameters from the command line.

:::warning
The configuration options and syntax in `.scala` (and `.sc`) files is likely to evolve in the future.
:::

## Command-line

Pass `--help` to any sub-command of `scala-cli` to list its options:
```bash
scala-cli --help
scala-cli package --help
```

As an example of command line configuration, one thing you can do with `scala-cli` command line options is to specify the Scala version:
```bash
scala-cli --scala 3.0.0 Test.scala
```

Another thing you can do is to specify dependencies:
```bash
scala-cli --dependency org.typelevel::cats-core:2.3.0 Test.scala
```

The reference documentation lists [all of the available options](../reference/cli-options.md).


## In .scala and .sc files

Configuration information can also be put in `.scala` and `.sc` files using special imports, and the `using` directive.

### Using directives

Scala CLI can be configured inside `.scala` files.
This is achieved by specifying `using` directives inside comments at the top of a `.scala` file, before any `package` or `import` statement:

```scala
//> using scala "2.13"
//> using scala-js
//> using options -Xasync

// package and import statements follow here ...
```

The reference documentation lists [all available using directives](../reference/directives.md#using-directives).

### Special imports

Dependencies can be added right from `.scala` and `.sc` files, using the same
syntax as Ammonite and Metals worksheets:

```scala
import $dep.`com.lihaoyi::upickle:1.4.0`
import $ivy.`com.lihaoyi::pprint:0.6.6`
import ujson._
```

Both `import $ivy` and `import $dep` are accepted, and are equivalent. Note that this syntax
might be deprecated - and then removed - in the future. It's recommended to add dependencies
with [`using` directives](#using-directives).
