---
title: Scala.JS
sidebar_position: 21
---

Scala CLI can compile, run, test, and package Scala.JS sources.

One caveat is that Scala CLI doesn't have support for JS linkers (such as [webpack](https://webpack.js.org))
like [scalajs-bundler](https://github.com/scalacenter/scalajs-bundler) has.
For this, you'll have to handle linking yourself, with the `.js` file generated by `scala-cli`.

In order to run Scala.JS sources, `node` is required.

## Configuration

Enable Scala.JS support by passing `--js` to `scala-cli`, such as:

```scala
scala Test.scala --js
```

## Dependencies

This section is currently a work in progress, but here are some initial notes:

- Beware platform dependencies
- `run` / `test` / `package` should all work

## Emit source maps

Passing `--js-emit-source-maps` to the `package` sub-command emits source maps alongside js files. To set the destination path of source maps, pass `--js-source-maps-path` flag with the argument.

The following command emits a `main.js.map` alongside js files:

```bash ignore
scala-cli package Hello.scala --js --js-emit-source-maps
# Emitted js source maps to: ./Hello.js.map
# Wrote Hello.js, run it with
#  node ./Hello.js
```

## Scala.Js DOM support

Passing `--js-dom` to the sub-commands to simulate a DOM in Nodej.js

:::note
If you see the following error, it means that you don't have installed `jsdom` library to simulate DOM.
```
Error: Cannot find module 'jsdom'
```
To fix it, install `jsdom` locally for your project. You can install install `jsdom` as follows:
```
npm init private
npm install jsdom
```
:::

```scala title=Hello.scala
//> using lib "org.scala-js::scalajs-dom::2.1.0"
//> using platform scala-js

object Hello {
  def main(args: Array[String]): Unit = {
      val parNode = document.createElement("p")
      parNode.textContent = "Hello World"
      document.body.appendChild(parNode)
  }
}
```

```bash
scala-cli Hello.scala --js-dom
# Hello
```

## Using Directives 

Scala.Js options are supported by using directives in ScalaCLI:

#### `--js-version`

 The Scala JS version

 #### `--js-header`

 A header that will be added at the top of generated .js files

For more options, see our [`using` directive section](./reference/directives.md#scala-js-options).

## Supported Scala.JS Versions

In the future, the ScalaCLI will be able to support any version of Scala.JS independently of the version of scala-cli. But for now, there are some limitations and it isn't possible to use each version of Scala.JS. 

The table below lists the last supported version of Scala.JS in ScalaCLI. If you want to use newer Scala.JS, update scala-cli.

| ScalaCLI versions   |      ScalaJs      | 
|---------------------|:-----------------:|
| 0.0.9               |   1.7.1           |
| 0.1.0               |   1.8.0           |
| 0.1.1               |   1.8.0           |
| 0.1.2               |   1.8.0           |